- [Instructor] Pointcuts are the way
a method or class is selected
for execution of an aspect.
So pointcuts select a join point,
one thing to note is that the selection
has a syntax all of its own.
So let's talk about the pointcut syntax now a little bit.
So essentially you have a designator,
and then you have some parenthesis,
and double quotes,
and then there's some code letters here
and an argument.
So let's talk about these code letters.
R is the return type.
So you'll start to see that these are calling down
to a method level
which makes sense because that's ultimately
what we're selecting is a method.
Even if we select a class,
we're drilling down to a method on that class.
So, this can be a specific return type,
or it can be a wild card.
Package is much the same way.
It is the package that the class exists in
or again, a wildcard.
C is the class,
and you can wildcard in there as well.
So if it's everything foo,
that can be defined as a class
within the structure.
M is method,
again, wildcarding is available.
And arg, it can be one arg,
many args, no args, all args,
it depends upon the syntax.
And I'm not going to go into the details
of all of the variations here
because we'd be here all day.
The documentation from Spring
as well as aspectJ is very descriptive
about how to write out these designators.
We're going to talk about one such designator.
But there are a few common ones
that you need to know.
So execution, which is an expression
for matching method execution.
And that's the one that we're going to use.
Within, expressions for matching
within certain types.
So I talked about you can have variations within classes,
so they have a specific name
or a type of name.
You can use things like within
to get to certain types.
Target is expressions
for matching a specific type.
And then the @annotation,
which is really ultimately what we want to use
are expressions for matching a specific annotation.
Now, why do I say
that we want to use this?
The reality is that
when you're writing application code,
you can get too overzealous with these aspects.
By using annotation,
you're forcing people
to make a conscious decision
to apply the annotation
which then gets the behavior.
And in my opinion,
that's much better than just blindly applying it
across the board,
because that can have unintended consequences.
At least this way
you can define a set of rules
that says "Hey, everybody who writes a service
"needs to put this logging logic in,
"but instead of us doing it automatically,
"use this annotation @loggable
"and that will get the behavior added."
So it allows you to have some control
over the situation
while still giving them free reign
to encapsulate that behavior
outside their application code.
So let's take a look at making this work.
So what we need to do
is go into our pom file,
we're going to start there.
And we need to add a couple dependencies.
First dependency is on aspectj itself.
So we need the aspectjweaver,
and we need that from org.aspectj,
make sure you get the org.aspectj one.
And go ahead and grab the latest version,
which I believe right now is one nine five.
And because we're going to write a logging aspect,
we need to get slf4j on our class path.
So we're going to do slf4j-log4j12,
and that comes from org.slf4j.
And once again,
we're going to grab the latest version,
which at this point in time is 1.7.30.
Now, I also need to go get a properties file set up
so that log4j will work properly.
So I would recommend
that you just grab this from the exercise files,
because it's kind of convoluted to write this.
Okay, like I said,
that was a lot to type,
so I hope you grabbed it from the exercise files
as opposed to typing all of that in.
So now we're going to create a package.
And we're going to call this aspect.
So in here,
we're going to create a new annotation called loggable.
To loggable, we need to set an @target.
Now our target needs to be ElementType.METHOD.
And our retention needs to have
a retention policy of RUNTIME.
And that's all we need for our interface itself.
So now we'll create our actual aspect,
and this is a Java class called LoggingAspect.
Now, we will mark this as an @component.
We will also mark this as an @aspect.
And in here we're going to define a pointcut.
And the pointcut that we're going to use
is @annotation(Loggable).
And this will just be a method,
public void executeLogging.
I like to do it this way,
you definitely don't have to.
You can put all of this in the next step
if you choose to.
But this is the way that I like to do it,
is I like to have a dedicated method
that has my pointcut definition on it.
Now we need to do one more thing
in order for this to be ready to go.
So go to your application context,
and we need to add an annotation, EnableAspectJAutoProxy.
So this will allow our proxy to load,
and to use this aspect.
As we get into the next section,
we're going to talk about writing the advice that is missing
from our logging aspect.